this lesson is going to cover the role
of react Redux and smart contracts in
purchasing an item for sale from our
online marketplace there are a lot of
similarities between this lesson and the
previous lesson and I think they work
well together to reinforce the concepts
needed to build blockchain applications
so if you feel like you're still not
quite grasping the concepts from the
previous lesson this lesson is really
gonna work to help solidify those
concepts because we're gonna see them
introduced again but from a different
application and for a different use case
and it's really going to help it start
to come together in your mind so let's
go ahead and jump right into it we're
going to look at the lifecycle of events
for purchasing an item we're going to
see how we use our react UI to send a
transaction to the etherion blockchain
in doing so we'll see how to update our
application state with data from our
smart contract now you really can't have
an online marketplace without the
ability to pay for purchases so you're
going to learn how to send ether along
with your smart contract function calls
and then we'll use the data from our
smart contract to update our user
interface our application workflow
starts when a user decides to make a
purchase in this example we've decided
that used foo for two ether is too good
of a deal to pass up
so we'll buy it by clicking the Buy
button that's going to dispatch a Redux
action we'll set that action up so that
it executes our smart contract function
to make the purchase will update the
Redux store with the details of our
transaction and doing so notifies a
reducer listening in on those properties
in the store the reducer updates
application state which in turn rear
Enders our react component
let's take a look at what happens in the
background whenever we click this Buy
button and trigger our Redux action
I've got my code editor open here
looking at the index page that renders
the component you can see right here
we've got our on click event for the
button set to this dot by item so if we
go to that definition the by item
function calls an action from the
merchandise file called by item and
passes in two properties it passes in
the item ID and the item price we can
find the code for this by item action in
our actions merchandise file we see that
it receives the two parameters it sets
up our contract and our provider to talk
to the etherium network and when we
start writing the code for this in a
couple of sections you're going to go
into that and much much more detail than
we are right now but right now I want to
show you this submit purchase to network
where we actually call the buy item
function from our solidity contract
inside the parameters for the buy item
function we included JSON object with
the key value the ether that's specified
with that key is the amount of ether
transferred from the sender's wallet to
the smart contract now remember that's
the contract that's deployed out on the
etherium Network and we can see that
function here in the code for our smart
contract one of the key differences
between this function and the one that
we use to add an item to the online
marketplace is this keyword payable
which means that this function is
capable of receiving funds whenever it's
called
those funds are available as message
value and so we do a couple things here
one is we make sure that the amount of
ether sent along with this function is
equal to the listed price for the item
that's being sold and then we also check
to make sure that the item is not marked
as sold
next we'll set the buyer property equal
to the etherium address of the person
who called the contract and then we'll
mark the item as sold
from our end-users perspective what that
looks like is they click the Buy button
they get the metamath notification it
pops up on their screen and ask them to
confirm the transaction and you can see
that the etherium address for the smart
contract has already been populated as
well as the purchase price of the item
that we're buying
and that's what's actually going to
execute the smart contract function we
wrap all of that in a promise when that
promise resolves we update the data that
we got back from the smart contract and
so let's take a look at that and see how
that causes the Redux reducer to update
the application state
when the execution of our smart
contracts function completes our our
promise will be resolved and then we
will execute this dispatch purchase
complete so if we take a look at the
code for that you can see our dispatch
returns the item sold along with the
transaction and success equal to true
then if we take a look inside of our
reducers file we see that we have a case
statement looking for the constant items
sold whenever that's seen we update the
transaction object with the transaction
details received back from the smart
contract function where it's then
available as a property that we can map
back to application state and utilize in
our UI
one such example of what we might do
with that data that we get back is if
you look at this screen where I'm
confirming the transaction over here the
shipped notification is grayed out
indicating that it's not available
because you can't ship it until someone
buys it but once we receive that
transaction back and we know that it's
actually been sold we can activate the
shipped button which would allow the
owner of this item to go in and mark
that they have shipped the product to
the person who bought it
when that happens we're going to trigger
the same exact workflow it's going to
trigger a Redux action which will
execute a smart contract function the
results of that function update the
Redux store where a reducer can be
configured to monitor changes in that
store update the application state and
re-render the react component with the
updated information
a next video concluding the transaction
because now that we've sold some items
on our online marketplace we have funds
out there that belong to the owner of
the products so once they ship the
product and the the buyer receives that
product they'll mark it as received
making those funds available for the
seller to download into their own wallet
so we're gonna see that same pattern
again an event and the UI triggers a
Redux action which we use to execute a
smart contract function update the redux
store which notifies a reducer which
updates our application state and then
re renders the UI so that's what's
coming in the next lesson and I'll see
you there